# Final Prospectus
## Motivation of the Project
It is widely known that climate change and the impact of carbon emissions pose significant threats to the Earth, with large corporations being the main culprits in contributing to these emissions. As emissions continue to rise and signs of global warming become more apparent, there has been a growing focus on holding these corporations accountable for their emissions. In response to the regulations and societal pressure to reduce emissions, companies have turned to carbon credits as a means to offset their emissions while still complying with regulations and societal expectations. A carbon credit, or carbon offset, refers to the reduction or elimination of carbon dioxide emissions and other greenhouse gasses, and it is a tradable financial instrument. These tradable entities, created to limit corporations’ net emissions, help to create and are a part of the carbon market.
The carbon offset market experienced significant growth from the late 1990s until 2021 but has subsequently faced criticism and has declined in 2022 due to evidence questioning the effectiveness of a large number of the credits on the market. Although carbon credits provide an easy way for companies to lower their net emissions without making significant changes to their current practices, it is apparent that the market will need to adapt to address these concerns. This raises an intriguing question: what types of social and political pressures are most effective in encouraging large corporations to invest in reducing their emissions in a productive way? 
It is evident certain carbon credits originate from low-quality projects that prioritize emission avoidance rather than removal. Many companies initially sought out these less effective projects until social pressures were placed upon them for attempting to cheat the system. The motivation behind this project is to analyze the effectiveness of various pressures in encouraging large corporations to invest in carbon credits in the first place, and what types of pressures encourage companies to invest in types of credits that prove to be more effective.
## Dataset Description
The data for this project comes from the Voluntary Registry Offsets Database that was created by the Goldman School of Public Policy at UC Berkeley. The school has a Center for Environmental Public Policy that has taken on a Carbon Trading Project. This project uses data from the four major voluntary offset project registries: American Carbon Registry (ACR), Climate Action Reserve (CAR), Gold Standard, and Verra (VCS). The Berkeley Carbon Trading Project developed a database that contains all of the entries from these four registries and contains all carbon offset projects, credit issuances, and credit retirements for these projects. 
Ultimately, the goal of the Berkeley Carbon Trading Project is to hold entities accountable for their carbon emissions and accurately report carbon trading so the use of this accurate reporting allows for easier access to these databases. The data is verifiable by the previous project registries therefore there is less of a worry towards any bias in the data. Companies also buy credits on the voluntary carbon market in order to use the credit to offset their reported emissions, so the data will also include all instances of buying carbon credits for offset purposes. The data currently sits in a large Excel file with different tabs that allow users to see brief summary statistics and charts that show various important aspects of the data. This project will use the full dataset of the Voluntary Registry Offsets Database without any previous aggregations and will split the dataset into smaller csv files: credits issued by vintage year, credits retired, credits remaining by vintage, and credits issued by issuance year. This data, as well as the original xlsx file will be available for use through the project repository. 
## Methodology Description
The project will analyze the time series data from the four data points on each project to identify significant year-to-year changes and map these changes to significant regulations or social pressures occuring at the time of the change. These changes will first be compared to years when major laws or regulations were implemented to investigate any substantial regulations that require further examination as well as any large social events such as protests or company ridicule. The data will be categorized by credit type to better comprehend the most common types of credits bought and any noteworthy trends within them, specifically looking at credit types that have been proven to be parts of ineffective projects such as REDD+ and Afforestation/Reforestation. 
After an overall analysis of trends in the market, there will then be an emphasis placed on case studies where companies were placed under ridicule for the projects they were supporting, and the response of other companies similar to them. There will be flags placed on companies called out in the media and the project will examine if this had any effect on the types of credits those types of companies bought the next year to address the presence of isomorphic pressures. This approach will allow the project to analyze the effect of social pressures rather than just regulatory pressures. The analysis will take place by utilizing parallel trends between companies in the same peer groups and regressing on the differences in the change that occurred after a major event. 
After these two types of analysis, the project will create a model that will identify significant shifts in the carbon market and correlate them with the political and social landscape to explain why businesses choose to purchase the specific credits they do and what the strongest motivating factors are.
## Proposed Outcomes and Relevance
In order to have a viable future and a chance to combat the climate crisis, organizations must be held accountable for their emissions, but in the world of capitalism and emphasis on profit, it is clear most organizations are going to find the easiest ways to do the minimum while staying within regulations and not being seen in a negative light by the public eye. Although the carbon market is likely going to change in the near future, having an understanding of these motivating factors will help maximize the reduction of emissions in the most effective way possible.  
It is clear that in the years after major regulations are put into place there will likely be a spike in the number of credits bought in order to meet these regulations. These findings will be important to examine whether credits are bought to fully comply with the regulation or if companies made any internal changes to reduce their emissions as well. They will also highlight whether companies looked to buy the cheapest project possible, or were truly trying to have an impact on their emissions. The more interesting trend will be to see if there are any isomorphic cultural pressures put on companies after their peers are ridiculed for the types of credits that are bought. If social pressures are a significant factor in changing the carbon market, this would prove the public's effectiveness in creating actionable change in combating the climate crisis. Having an understanding of businesses’ motivations is important to better control their actions towards emissions. 
## Blind Spots or Ethical Issues
The most difficult part of the project will be proving causation rather than just correlation. There will be many omitted variables in the regression model due to the nature of markets but this will be combated by different economic models such as parallel trends or panel data with fixed effects. As the researcher, I will be careful in making the distinction between causation and correlation and try to draw as strong of conclusions as possible. Having a strong understanding of the carbon market and the trends within it will allow for more accurate conclusions. 
Although the data I am utilizing does not directly relate to human information, this project aims to examine the general accountability and ethical considerations associated with utilizing data to monitor the environmental behavior of large corporations. Overall, it is our collective social responsibility to combat the climate crisis and provide businesses with a framework that discourages irresponsible carbon emissions, which are detrimental to the future of humanity. By seeking an effective solution or delving deeper into this intricate concept, we can further extend the ethical boundaries of these corporations.



